add metrics in go-libp2p blogpost (#77)
libp2p/blog: src/_blog/metrics-in-go-libp2p.md

---
tags:
- metrics
- prometheus
title: Metrics in go-libp2p
description:
date: 2023-06-15
permalink: "/2023-06-15-metrics-in-go-libp2p/"
author: Sukun Tarachandani
---

# Metrics in go-libp2p

## Introduction

> Libp2p is the core networking component for projects and so it is important to be able to observe the state of its components. To that effect, we've been adding metrics to the various components over the last few months. They've already helped us debug some issues and helped with the development of smart dialing. 

Author: This reads better. We don't capitalise libp2p at sentence start?

> Libp2p is the core networking component for projects and so it is important to be able to observe the state of its components. To that effect, we've been adding metrics to the various components over the last few months. They've already helped us debug some issues and helped with the development of smart dialing. 

Reviewer: It's stylized as lowercase

## Why Prometheus?

> After deliberations between prometheus, opencensus, and opentelemetry, we decided to use prometheus. The details of the discussion can be found [here](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/1356). To summarise, prometheus was performant and ubiquitious. This allowed us to add metrics without worrying too much about performance. We also ensured that tracking metrics didn't put too much pressure on the garbage collector, something that we'd found to be an [issue with opencensus](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/1955).

Reviewer: Let's make sure to capitalize Prometheus, OpenCensus, OpenTelemetry and other names according to their branding.

> After deliberations between prometheus, opencensus, and opentelemetry, we decided to use prometheus. The details of the discussion can be found [here](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/1356). To summarise, prometheus was performant and ubiquitious. This allowed us to add metrics without worrying too much about performance. We also ensured that tracking metrics didn't put too much pressure on the garbage collector, something that we'd found to be an [issue with opencensus](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/1955).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We were first faced with the question of choosing a metrics collection and monitoring system. Among our choices were prometheus, opencensus, and opentelemetry.

After deliberations,  we decided to use prometheus. The details of the discussion can be found [here](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/1356). To summarise, prometheus was performant and ubiquitious. This allowed us to add metrics without worrying too much about performance. We also ensured that tracking metrics didn't put too much pressure on the garbage collector, something that we'd found to be an [issue with opencensus](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/1955).
```

I would rephrase the intro like so.

Is it also worth describing why we didn't choose others? For example you mentioned the issue with OpenCensus. For OpenTelemetry should you mention that we didn't want to depend on alpha software?

Also is there anything here to say about considerations for users i.e. would choosing Prometheus make it easier to users of go-libp2p to plug in Grafana?

Author: I added a line about Grafana.

> ## Enabling Metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How users can enable metrics
```

> Metrics have been enabled by default from go-libp2p v0.26.0. All you need to do is to setup a promtheus exporter for the collected metrics. 

Reviewer: let's link to the release notes for 0.26.0

```go

func main() {
        http.Handle("/metrics", promhttp.Handler())
	go func() {

> 		http.ListenAndServe(":2112", nil)

Reviewer: should we note that the port is arbitrary

	}()

	host, err := libp2p.New()
        // err handling
        ...
}
```
Now all you have to do is to point your prometheus instance to scrape from `:2122/metrics`

By default, metrics are sent to the default prometheus Registerer. To use a different Registerer from the default prometheus registerer, use the option `libp2p.PrometheusRegisterer`. 

```go

func main() {
	reg := prometheus.NewRegistry()
        http.Handle("/metrics", promhttp.HandlerFor(reg, promhttp.HandlerOpts{}))
	go func() {
		http.ListenAndServe(":2112", nil)
	}()

	host, err := libp2p.New(
                libp2p.PrometheusRegisterer(reg),
        )
        // err handling
        ...
}
```

> <!-- TODO: incorporate this PR: https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/pull/2232 -->

Reviewer: 👍 agree that we should incorporate that PR into this post

Reviewer: That PR has been merged now

Author: Moved it to discover section.

> ## Discovering what metrics are available

Reviewer: should this be a subheading under the above?

go-libp2p provides metrics and grafana dashboards for all its major subsystems out of the box. You can check https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/tree/master/dashboards for the grafana dashboards available. Another great way to discover available metrics is to open prometheus ui and type `libp2p_(libp2p-package-name)_` and find available metrics from autocomplete. For Ex: `libp2p_autonat_` gives you the list of all metrics exported from AutoNAT.

> 

Reviewer: Might be helpful to include a screenshot of the prometheus UI

## How are metrics useful?  

I'll share two cases where having metrics were extremely helpful for us in go-libp2p. One case deals with being able to debug a memory leak and one where adding two new metrics helped us with development of a new feature. 

### Debugging with metrics

> We were excited about adding metrics because it gave us the opportunity to observe exactly what was happening within the system. One of the first system we added metrics to was the Event Bus. When we added event bus metrics, we were immediately able to see discrepancy between two of our metrics, EvtLocalReachabilityChanged and EvtLocalAddressesUpdated.

Reviewer: Let's consistently put references to code in ``

<div class="container" style="display:flex; column-gap:10px; justify-content: center; align-items: center;">
    <figure>
        <img src="../assets/metrics-in-go-libp2p-evtlocalreachabilitychanged.png" width="750">
        <figcaption style="font-size:x-small;">
                EvtLocalReachabilityChanged
        </figcaption>
    </figure>
</div>

<div class="container" style="display:flex; column-gap:10px; justify-content: center; align-items: center;">
    <figure>
        <img src="../assets/metrics-in-go-libp2p-evtlocaladdressesupdated.png" width="750">
        <figcaption style="font-size:x-small;">
                EvtLocalAddressesUpdated
        </figcaption>
    </figure>
</div>

> Ideally when a node's reachability changes, the node's addresses should change as it tries to obtain a relay reservation. This pointed us to an issue with AutoNAT. Upon debugging we realised that the we were emitting reachability changed events when the reachability had not changed and only the address to which the autonat dial succeeded had changed. Another event EvtLocalProtocolsUpdated pointed us to another problem. 

Reviewer: let's link to the specs when first referencing modules like AutoNat or relay

<div class="container" style="display:flex; column-gap:10px; justify-content: center; align-items: center;">
    <figure>
        <img src="../assets/metrics-in-go-libp2p-evtprotocolsupdated.png" width="750">
        <figcaption style="font-size:x-small;">
                EvtLocalProtocolsUpdated
        </figcaption>
    </figure>
</div>

> Node's supported protocols shouldn't change if node's reachability has not changed. Once aware of the issue, finding the root cause was simple enough. There was a problem with cleaning up the relay service used in relay manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A node's supported protocols shouldn't change if its reachability has not changed. Once we became aware of the issue, finding the root cause was simple enough. There was a problem with cleaning up the relay service used in relay manager.
```

> You can see the details on the [github issue](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/2046)

Reviewer: I would suggest moving the link to this issue to the top of this section/incorporating into the first paragraph of this section

### Development using metrics

> In go-libp2p v0.28.0 we introduced smart dialing. When connecting with a peer instead of dialing all the addresses of the peer in parallel, we now prioritise QUIC dials. This significantly reduces dial cancellations and reduces unnecessary load on the network. 

Reviewer: link to the release notes for 0.28.0

Not dialing all addresses in parallel does increase latency for establishing a connection when the first dial doesn't succeed. We wanted to ensure that most of the connections succeeded with no additional latency. To help us better gauge the impact we added two metrics
1. Dial ranking delay. This metric tracks the latency in connection establishment introduced by the dial prioritisation logic. 
2. Dials per connection. This metric counts the number of addresses dialed before a connection was established with the peer. 

Dials per connection measures the benefit of introducing smart dialing mechanism, and dial ranking delay provided us with the assurance that the vast majority of dials were unaffected. 

<div class="container" style="display:flex; column-gap:10px; justify-content: center; align-items: center;">
    <figure>
        <img src="../assets/metrics-in-go-libp2p-smart-dialing.png" width="750">
        <figcaption style="font-size:x-small;">
                Smart dialing metrics
        </figcaption>
    </figure>
</div>

> The details can be seen on the smart-dialing [PR](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/pull/2260)

Reviewer: Suggest to move this up

> ## Resources and How you can contribute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Resources
```
Are we looking for contributions for metrics here? Maybe just call this Resources

Check out our grafana dashboards: https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/tree/master/dashboards

To create custom dashboards, the [prometheus](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/) and [grafana docs](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/panels-visualizations/) are great resources.

> 

Reviewer: let's copy past this section from the libp2p at IPFS Thing blogpost

```
## Get Involved

- If you’d like to get involved and contribute to libp2p, you can reach out to us using these means: [https://libp2p.io/#community](https://libp2p.io/#community)
- If you’re a self-starter and want to start pushing code immediately, feel free to ping the maintainers in any of these help wanted/good first issues: [go-libp2p](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22), [js-libp2p](https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22), and [rust-libp2p](https://github.com/libp2p/rust-libp2p/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Agetting-started).
- If you want to work in and around libp2p full-time, there are various teams hiring including the implementation teams.  See [https://jobs.protocol.ai/jobs?q=libp2p](https://jobs.protocol.ai/jobs?q=libp2p) for opportunities across the [Protocol Labs Network](https://plnetwork.io/).

To learn more about libp2p generally, checkout:

- The [libp2p documentation portal](https://docs.libp2p.io/)
- The [libp2p connectivity website](https://connectivity.libp2p.io/)
- The [libp2p curriculum put together by the Protocol Labs Launchpad program](https://curriculum.pl-launchpad.io/curriculum/libp2p/introduction/)

You can reach out to us and stay tuned for our next event announcement by joining our [various communication channels](https://libp2p.io/#community), joining the [discussion forum](https://discuss.libp2p.io/), following us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/libp2p), or saying hi in the #libp2p-implementers channel in the [Filecoin public Slack](http://filecoin.io/slack).
```

---
tags:
- metrics
- prometheus
title: Metrics in go-libp2p
description:
date: 2023-06-15
permalink: "/2023-06-15-metrics-in-go-libp2p/"
author: Sukun Tarachandani
---

# Metrics in go-libp2p

## Introduction

libp2p is the core networking component for many projects such as IPFS, Filecoin, the Ethereum Beacon Chain, and more.
We as maintainers of go-libp2p, want to be able to observe the state of libp2p components and also enable our users to do the same in their production systems.
To that effect, we've been added instrumentation to collect metrics from various components over the last few months.
In fact, they've already helped us debug some nuanced go-libp2p issues and helped with the development of features (discussed in detail below).
Today, we'd like to share some of the choices we made, our learnings, and point you to resources that will help you monitor your deployments of go-libp2p.

## Why Prometheus?

We were first faced with the question of choosing a metrics collection and monitoring system. Among our choices were Prometheus, OpenCensus, and OpenTelemetry. The details of the discussion can be found [here](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/1356).

> To summarise the discussion, we'd observed [performance problems with OpenCensus](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/1955) due to large amounts of garbage generated and OpenTelemetry's metrics api is still unstable as of writing this blog. In contrast, Prometheus was performant and ubiquitious. This allowed us to add metrics without worrying too much about performance. We also ensured that tracking metrics wasn't putting too much pressure on the garbage collector by [testing allocations](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/2060) for all metrics that we introduced. In addition, we knew a lot of our users would prefer using Grafana as their visualisation tool and Grafana has excellent support for visualising prometheus metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We noticed that [OpenCensus creates a lot of allocations](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/1955), which would lead to increased GC pressure. OpenTelemetry's metrics API is still unstable as of writing this blog. In contrast, Prometheus is performant (zero-alloc) andubiquitous. This allows us to add metrics without worrying too much about performance, even for frequently exercised code paths. 

We also added ready-to-use Grafana dashboards, since we knew that Grafana is the preferred visualization tool of a lot of our users.
```

> ## How users can enable metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How Users can enable Metrics
```

> Metrics have been enabled by default from go-libp2p [v0.26.0](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/releases/tag/v0.26.0). All you need to do is setup a Prometheus exporter for the collected metrics. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Metrics are enabled by default from go-libp2p [v0.26.0](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/releases/tag/v0.26.0). All you need to do is setup a Prometheus exporter for the collected metrics. 
```

Reviewer 2: Should we mention that Kubo don't need to do anything and can use the default :5001/debug/metrics/prometheus endpoint?

Author: I'm not sure. This is a function of how you expose metrics from the Registerer you configure libp2p with. Do you think we should mention that kubo exposes them at this endpoint? We can add this if a large enough chunk of our readers are coming from a kubo context. Are they?

```go

func main() {
        http.Handle("/metrics", promhttp.Handler())
	go func() {
		http.ListenAndServe(":2112", nil) // Any port is fine
	}()

	host, err := libp2p.New()
        // err handling
        ...
}
```
Now just point your prometheus instance to scrape from `:2122/metrics`

By default, metrics are sent to the default prometheus Registerer. To use a different Registerer from the default prometheus registerer, use the option `libp2p.PrometheusRegisterer`. 

```go

func main() {
	reg := prometheus.NewRegistry()
        http.Handle("/metrics", promhttp.HandlerFor(reg, promhttp.HandlerOpts{}))
	go func() {
		http.ListenAndServe(":2112", nil) // Any port is fine
	}()

	host, err := libp2p.New(
                libp2p.PrometheusRegisterer(reg),
        )
        // err handling
        ...
}
```

<!-- TODO: incorporate this PR: https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/pull/2232 -->

> ### Discovering what metrics are available

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Discovering which Metrics are available
```

Author: oops

go-libp2p provides metrics and grafana dashboards for all its major subsystems out of the box. You can check https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/tree/master/dashboards for the grafana dashboards available. Another great way to discover available metrics is to open prometheus ui and type `libp2p_(libp2p-package-name)_` and find available metrics from autocomplete. For Ex: `libp2p_autonat_` gives you the list of all metrics exported from [AutoNAT](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/tree/master/autonat).

<div class="container" style="display:flex; column-gap:10px; justify-content: center; align-items: center;">
    <figure>
        <img src="../assets/metrics-in-go-libp2p-prometheus-ui.png" width="750">
        <figcaption style="font-size:x-small;">
                EvtLocalAddressesUpdated
        </figcaption>
    </figure>
</div>

> ## How are metrics useful?  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How are Metrics useful?  
```

I'll share two cases where having metrics were extremely helpful for us in go-libp2p. One case deals with being able to debug a memory leak and one where adding two new metrics helped us with development of a new feature. 

> ### Debugging with metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Debugging with Metrics
```

> We were excited about adding metrics because it gave us the opportunity to observe exactly what was happening within the system. One of the first system we added metrics to was the Event Bus. When we added event bus metrics, we were immediately able to see discrepancy between two of our metrics, `EvtLocalReachabilityChanged` and `EvtLocalAddressesUpdated`. You can see the details on the [github issue](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/2046)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We were excited about adding metrics because it gave us the opportunity to observe exactly what was happening within the system. One of the first systems we added metrics to was the Event Bus. 
The event bus is used to pass event notifications between different libp2p components.
When we added event bus metrics, we were immediately able to see discrepancy between two of our metrics, `EvtLocalReachabilityChanged` and `EvtLocalAddressesUpdated`. You can see the details on the [GitHub issue](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/2046)
```

Author: using this.

The graph for event `EvtLocalProtocolsUpdated` pointed us to another problem. 

<div class="container" style="display:flex; column-gap:10px; justify-content: center; align-items: center;">
    <figure>
        <img src="../assets/metrics-in-go-libp2p-evtprotocolsupdated.png" width="750">
        <figcaption style="font-size:x-small;">
                EvtLocalProtocolsUpdated
        </figcaption>
    </figure>
</div>

A node's supported protocols shouldn't change if its reachability has not changed. Once we became aware of the issue, finding the root cause was simple enough. There was a problem with cleaning up the relay service used in relay manager. The details of the issue and the subsequent solution can be found [here](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/2091)

> ### Development using metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Development using Metrics
```

Not dialing all addresses in parallel increases latency for establishing a connection if the first dial doesn't succeed. We wanted to ensure that most of the connections succeeded with no additional latency. To help us better gauge the impact we added two metrics
1. Dial ranking delay. This metric tracks the latency in connection establishment introduced by the dial prioritisation logic. 
2. Dials per connection. This metric counts the number of addresses dialed before a connection was established with the peer. 

Dials per connection measured the benefit of introducing smart dialing mechanism, and dial ranking delay provided us with the assurance that the vast majority of dials had no adverse impact on latency. 

<div class="container" style="display:flex; column-gap:10px; justify-content: center; align-items: center;">
    <figure>
        <img src="../assets/metrics-in-go-libp2p-smart-dialing.png" width="750">
        <figcaption style="font-size:x-small;">
                Smart dialing metrics
        </figcaption>
    </figure>
</div>

## Resources

> Check out our grafana dashboards: [https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/tree/master/dashboards](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/tree/master/dashboards)

Reviewer: Nit: 's/grafana/Grafana/' 's/prometheus/Prometheus/' anywhere that's not a url

- If you’re a self-starter and want to start pushing code immediately, feel free to ping the maintainers in any of these help wanted/good first issues: [go-libp2p](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22), [js-libp2p](https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22), and [rust-libp2p](https://github.com/libp2p/rust-libp2p/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Agetting-started).
- If you want to work in and around libp2p full-time, there are various teams hiring including the implementation teams.  See [https://jobs.protocol.ai/jobs?q=libp2p](https://jobs.protocol.ai/jobs?q=libp2p) for opportunities across the [Protocol Labs Network](https://plnetwork.io/).

To learn more about libp2p generally, checkout:

- The [libp2p documentation portal](https://docs.libp2p.io/)
- The [libp2p connectivity website](https://connectivity.libp2p.io/)
- The [libp2p curriculum put together by the Protocol Labs Launchpad program](https://curriculum.pl-launchpad.io/curriculum/libp2p/introduction/)

> You can reach out to us and stay tuned for our next event announcement by joining our [various communication channels](https://libp2p.io/#community), joining the [discussion forum](https://discuss.libp2p.io/), following us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/libp2p), or saying hi in the #libp2p-implementers channel in the [Filecoin public Slack](http://filecoin.io/slack).

Reviewer 2: Do we need this? This sounds like something that should be in the footer of the blog itself, not part of the blog post.

Author: @p-shahi wdyt? 
I added this because most other posts have a `Resources and how you can help contribute 💪` section. I don't mind removing this from here but I think this should be available somewhere.

Reviewer: I prefer to keep it here as a call to action for now.
Happy to move the generic info to a footer in the future. Only worry about that is how to present it so the footer is not too verbose

---
tags:
- metrics
- prometheus
title: Metrics in go-libp2p
description:
date: 2023-06-15
permalink: "/2023-06-15-metrics-in-go-libp2p/"
author: Sukun Tarachandani
---

# Metrics in go-libp2p

## Introduction

libp2p is the core networking component for many projects such as IPFS, Filecoin, the Ethereum Beacon Chain, and more.
We as maintainers of go-libp2p, want to be able to observe the state of libp2p components and also enable our users to do the same in their production systems.
To that effect, we've been added instrumentation to collect metrics from various components over the last few months.
In fact, they've already helped us debug some nuanced go-libp2p issues and helped with the development of features (discussed in detail below).
Today, we'd like to share some of the choices we made, our learnings, and point you to resources that will help you monitor your deployments of go-libp2p.

## Why Prometheus?

We were first faced with the question of choosing a metrics collection and monitoring system. Among our choices were Prometheus, OpenCensus, and OpenTelemetry. The details of the discussion can be found [here](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/1356).

> We noticed that [OpenCensus creates a lot of allocations](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/1955), which would lead to increased GC pressure. OpenTelemetry's metrics API is still unstable as of writing this blog. In contrast, Prometheus is performant (zero-alloc) and ubiquitous. This allows us to add metrics without worrying too much about performance, even for frequently exercised code paths. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We noticed that [OpenCensus creates a lot of allocations](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/1955), which would lead to increased GC pressure. OpenTelemetry's metrics API is still unstable as of writing this blog. In contrast, Prometheus is performant (zero-alloc) and ubiquitous. This allows us to add metrics without sacrificing performance, even for frequently exercised code paths. 
```

we actually do worry about performance!

> We also added ready-to-use Grafana dashboards, since we knew that Grafana is the preferred visualization tool of a lot of our users.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We also added ready-to-use Grafana dashboards, since Grafana is the preferred visualization tool for a lot of our users.
```

## How Users can enable Metrics

> Metrics are enabled by default from go-libp2p [v0.26.0](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/releases/tag/v0.26.0). All you need to do is setup a Prometheus exporter for the collected metrics. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Metrics are enabled by default since go-libp2p [v0.26.0](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/releases/tag/v0.26.0). All you need to do is setup a Prometheus exporter for the collected metrics. 
```

<div class="container" style="display:flex; column-gap:10px; justify-content: center; align-items: center;">
    <figure>
        <img src="../assets/metrics-in-go-libp2p-prometheus-ui.png" width="750">
        <figcaption style="font-size:x-small;">
                EvtLocalAddressesUpdated
        </figcaption>
    </figure>
</div>

To see the dashboards in action check the [Metrics and Dashboards](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/tree/master/examples/metrics-and-dashboards) example in the go-libp2p repo. This example sets up a dummy libp2p app configured with a Prometheus and Grafana instance. You can check all the dashboards available at <http://localhost:3000/dashboards>.

### Local development and debugging setup

> We've made it extremely easy to get started with metrics for local development. You can use the docker setup provided in <https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/tree/master/dashboards> to spin up a Grafana and Prometheus instance configured with all the available dashboards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've made it extremely easy to get started with metrics for local development. You can use the Docker setup provided in <https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/tree/master/dashboards> to spin up a Grafana and Prometheus instance configured with all the available dashboards.
```

First add these lines to your code. This exposes a metrics collection endpoint at <http://localhost:5001/debug/metrics/prometheus>

```
import "github.com/prometheus/client_golang/prometheus/promhttp"

go func() {
    http.Handle("/debug/metrics/prometheus", promhttp.Handler())
    log.Fatal(http.ListenAndServe(":5001", nil))
}()
```

> Now run `docker compose up` and access your application's metrics at <http://localhost:3000>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now run `docker-compose up` and access your application's metrics at <http://localhost:3000>
```

This would need to be changed with https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/pull/2397 (see README in that PR).

Reviewer 3: `docker compose` is preferred over `docker-compose` I believe. When you run docker-compose it's actually just an alias for `docker compose`.

```
 docker-compose                        

Usage:  docker compose [OPTIONS] COMMAND
...
```

Author: I think `docker compose up` is the more popular variant. 
@marten-seemann no strong opinions here, I'll change if you want to.

Reviewer 2: Looks like I'm not up-to-date with what's going on in the Docker world.

        <img src="../assets/metrics-in-go-libp2p-smart-dialing.png" width="750">
        <figcaption style="font-size:x-small;">
                Smart dialing metrics
        </figcaption>
    </figure>
</div>

## Resources

Check out our Grafana dashboards: <https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/tree/master/dashboards>

To create custom dashboards, [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/) and [Grafana docs](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/panels-visualizations/) are great resources.

## Get Involved

- If you’d like to get involved and contribute to libp2p, you can reach out to us using these means: [https://libp2p.io/#community](https://libp2p.io/#community)
- If you’re a self-starter and want to start pushing code immediately, feel free to ping the maintainers in any of these help wanted/good first issues: [go-libp2p](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22), [js-libp2p](https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22), and [rust-libp2p](https://github.com/libp2p/rust-libp2p/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Agetting-started).

> - If you want to work in and around libp2p full-time, there are various teams hiring including the implementation teams.  See [https://jobs.protocol.ai/jobs?q=libp2p](https://jobs.protocol.ai/jobs?q=libp2p) for opportunities across the [Protocol Labs Network](https://plnetwork.io/).

Reviewer 3: > https://jobs.protocol.ai/jobs?q=libp2p

Is empty?

Author: Changed to 
- If you want to work building p2p systems full-time, there are various teams hiring.  See [https://jobs.protocol.ai/jobs](https://jobs.protocol.ai/jobs) for opportunities across the [Protocol Labs Network](https://plnetwork.io/).

---
tags:
- metrics
- prometheus
- grafana
title: Metrics in go-libp2p
description:

> date: 2023-06-15

Reviewer 2: Do we need to update this?

Author: We can update it once we are ready to release. https://github.com/libp2p/blog/pull/77#pullrequestreview-1505832300

Author: done

> permalink: "/2023-06-15-metrics-in-go-libp2p/"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
permalink: "/2023-06-15-metrics-in-go-libp2p/"
```
note the permalink needs to change as well.

go-libp2p provides metrics and Grafana dashboards for all its major subsystems out of the box. You can check <https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/tree/master/dashboards> for the Grafana dashboards available. Another great way to discover available metrics is to open Prometheus ui and type `libp2p_(libp2p-package-name)_` and find available metrics from autocomplete. For Ex: `libp2p_autonat_` gives you the list of all metrics exported from [AutoNAT](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/tree/master/autonat).

<div class="container" style="display:flex; column-gap:10px; justify-content: center; align-items: center;">
    <figure>
        <img src="../assets/metrics-in-go-libp2p-prometheus-ui.png" width="750">
        <figcaption style="font-size:x-small;">
                EvtLocalAddressesUpdated
        </figcaption>
    </figure>
</div>

To see the dashboards in action check the [Metrics and Dashboards](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/tree/master/examples/metrics-and-dashboards) example in the go-libp2p repo. This example sets up a dummy libp2p app configured with a Prometheus and Grafana instance. You can check all the dashboards available at <http://localhost:3000/dashboards>.

> 

Author: @MarcoPolo if we remove the example, I'll need to remove this.

Author: Just saw: https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/pull/2385#issuecomment-1613593806

As long as we are keeping the example, this is not a blocker. So we are good to go.

---
tags:
- metrics
- prometheus
- grafana
title: Metrics in go-libp2p
description:
date: 2023-08-15

> permalink: "/2023-18-15-metrics-in-go-libp2p/"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
permalink: "/2023-08-15-metrics-in-go-libp2p/"
```

Author: Thanks 🤦

author: Sukun Tarachandani
header_image: "/metrics-in-go-libp2p-header.png"
---

# Metrics in go-libp2p

## Introduction

> libp2p is the core networking component for many projects such as IPFS, Filecoin, the Ethereum Beacon Chain, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
go-libp2p is the core networking component for many projects such as IPFS, Filecoin, the Ethereum Beacon Chain, and more.
```

We as maintainers of go-libp2p, want to be able to observe the state of libp2p components and also enable our users to do the same in their production systems.
To that effect, we've been added instrumentation to collect metrics from various components over the last few months.
In fact, they've already helped us debug some nuanced go-libp2p issues and helped with the development of features (discussed in detail below).
Today, we'd like to share some of the choices we made, our learnings, and point you to resources that will help you monitor your deployments of go-libp2p.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Check out the [links here](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/tree/master/dashboards/README.md#public-dashboards) to see the public dashboards of different libp2p components.

```

Author: We have the links twice now. Here and in `Discovering which Metrics are available` section. This seems fine to me, just wanted to highlight.
